OSDOCS-15028: Created RNs for management console (#100668)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-20-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-release-note-bare-metal-hardware-bug-fixes_{context}"]
=== Bare Metal Hardware Provisioning

[id="ocp-release-note-cloud-compute-bug-fixes_{context}"]
=== Cloud Compute

* Before this update, {aws-short} compute machine sets could include a null value for the `userDataSecret` parameter.
Using a null value sometimes caused machines to get stuck in the `Provisioning` state. With this release, the `userDataSecret` parameter requires a value.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55135[OCPBUGS-55135])

* Before this update, {product-title} clusters on {aws-short} that were created with version 4.13 or earlier could not update to version 4.19.
Clusters that were created with version 4.14 and later have an {aws-short} `cloud-conf` ConfigMap by default, and this ConfigMap is required starting in {product-title} 4.19.
With this release, the Cloud Controller Manager Operator creates a default `cloud-conf` ConfigMap when none is present on the cluster.
This change enables clusters that were created with version 4.13 or earlier to update to version 4.19.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-59251[OCPBUGS-59251])

> * Before this update, a `failed to find machine for node ...` appeared in the logs when the `InternalDNS` address for a machine was not set as expected.

Author: Done

* Before this update, a bug fix altered the availability set configuration by changing the fault domain count to use the maximum available value instead of being fixed at 2.
This inadvertently caused scaling issues for compute machine sets that were created prior to the bug fix, because the controller attempted to modify immutable availability sets.
With this release, availability sets are no longer modified after creation, allowing affected compute machine sets to scale properly.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56380[OCPBUGS-56380])

* Before this update, compute machine sets migrating from the Cluster API to the Machine API got stuck in the `Migrating` state.
As a consequence, the compute machine set could not finish transitioning to use a different authoritative API or perform further reconciliation of the `MachineSet` object status.
With this release, the migration controllers watch for changes in Cluster API resources and react to authoritative API transitions.
As a result, compute machine sets successfully transition from the Cluster API to the Machine API.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56487[OCPBUGS-56487])

> * Before this update, for the `maxUnhealthy` field in the `MachineHealthCheck` custom resource definition (CRD), it did not document the default value.

Author: Done

With this release, the CRD documents the default value.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-61314[OCPBUGS-61314])

* Before this update, it was possible to specify the use of the `CapacityReservationsOnly` capacity reservation behavior and Spot Instances in the same machine template.
As a consequence, machines with these two incompatible settings were created.

> With this release, validation of machine templates ensures that these two incompatible settings do not co-occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, validation of machine templates ensures that these two incompatible settings are not set at the same time.
```

As a result, deletion requests on nonauthoritative machine correctly cascade, preventing orphaned authoritative machines and ensuring consistency in machine cleanup.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55985[OCPBUGS-55985])

* Before this update, on clusters that support migrating Machine API resources to Cluster API resources, the {cluster-capi-operator} could create an authoritative Cluster API compute machine set in the `Paused` state.
As a consequence, the newly created Cluster API compute machine set could not reconcile or scale machines even though it was using the authoritative API.
With this release, the Operator now ensures that Cluster API compute machine sets are created in an unpaused state when the Cluster API is authoritative.
As a result, newly created Cluster API compute machine sets are reconciled immediately and scaling and machine lifecycle operations proceed as intended when the Cluster API is authoritative.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56604[OCPBUGS-56604])

* Before this update, scaling large numbers of nodes was slow because scaling requires reconciling each machine several times and each machine was reconciled individually.

> With this release, up to ten machines can be reconciled concurrently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, up to 10 machines can be reconciled concurrently.
```

With this release, the controller checks the value of the `authoritativeAPI` field before adding scale-from-zero annotations.
As a result, the controller avoids the looping behavior by only adding these annotations to a Machine API compute machine set when the Machine API is authoritative.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-57581[OCPBUGS-57581])

* Before this update, the Machine API Operator attempted to reconcile `Machine` resources on platforms other than {aws-short} where the `.status.authoritativeAPI` field was not populated.
As a consequence, compute machines remained in the `Provisioning` state indefinitely and never became operational.
With this release, the Machine API Operator now populates the empty `.status.authoritativeAPI` field with the corresponding value in the machine specification.
A guard is also added to the controllers to handle cases where this field might still be empty.
As a result, `Machine` and `MachineSet` resources are reconciled properly and compute machines no longer remain in the `Provisioning` state indefinitely.
(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-56849[OCPBUGS-56849])

> * Before this update, the Machine API Provider Azure used an old version of the Azure SDK, which used an old API version that did not support referencing a Capacity Reservation group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Machine API Provider Azure used an old version of the Azure SDK that did not support referencing a Capacity Reservation group.
```

* Before this update, the **Namespace** column displayed on the **MachineSets** list page even when you viewed a single project, because the code did not correctly scope the columns. With this release, the column logic is fixed. As a result, the **MachineSets** list no longer shows the **Namespace** column for project-scoped views. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-58334[OCPBUGS-58334])

* Before this update, navigating to a storage class page with multiple path elements in the `href` displayed a blank tab. With this release, the plugin is fixed so that the tab content displays correctly after switching. As a result, storage class pages no longer show blank tabs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-58258[OCPBUGS-58258])

* Before this update, editing a `HorizontalPodAutoscaler` (HPA) with a `ContainerResource` type caused a runtime error because the code did not define the `e.resource` variable. With this release, the `e.resource` is defined and the runtime error is fixed in the form editor. As a result, editing an HPA with the `ContainerResource` type no longer fails. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-58208[OCPBUGS-58208])

> * Before this update, the `TELEMETER_CLIENT_DISABLED` setting in the `ConsoleConfig` ConfigMap caused gaps in the telemetry, which limited troubleshooting. With this release, the telemetry client is temporarily disable to resolve "Too Many Requests" errors. As a result, telemetry data is collected reliably, removing limits on troubleshooting. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-58094[OCPBUGS-58094])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the `TELEMETER_CLIENT_DISABLED` setting in the `ConsoleConfig` ConfigMap caused gaps in the telemetry, which limited troubleshooting. With this release, the telemetry client is temporarily disabled to resolve `Too Many Requests` errors. As a result, telemetry data is collected reliably, removing limits on troubleshooting. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-58094[OCPBUGS-58094])
```
